validate scopes /8 (#30934)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/minimal-apis.md

For more information, see <xref:security/cors?view=aspnetcore-6.0>

## ValidateScopes and ValidateOnBuild

<xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceProviderOptions.ValidateScopes> and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceProviderOptions.ValidateOnBuild> are enabled by default in the [Development](xref:fundamentals/environments).

> The following code shows `ValidateScopes` is enabled by default in development mode but disabled in release mode:

Reviewer: Can we provide an explainer of why this is enabled in `Development` by default? We can explain that it can help catch potential memory leaks if you're attempt to resolve a scoped service as a singleton and retaining it in memory longer than the scope of the request.

For more information, see <xref:security/cors?view=aspnetcore-6.0>

## ValidateScopes and ValidateOnBuild

> <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceProviderOptions.ValidateScopes> and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceProviderOptions.ValidateOnBuild> are enabled by default in the [Development](xref:fundamentals/environments) but disabled in release mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceProviderOptions.ValidateScopes> and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceProviderOptions.ValidateOnBuild> are enabled by default in the [Development](xref:fundamentals/environments) environment but disabled in other environments.
```
(it has nothing to do with Debug/Release mode)

> When `ValidateOnBuild=true`, the DI container validates the service configuration at build time. If the service configuration is invalid, the build fails at app startup, rather than at runtime when the service is requested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When `ValidateOnBuild` is `true`, the DI container validates the service configuration at build time. If the service configuration is invalid, the build fails at app startup, rather than at runtime when the service is requested.
```

Reviewer 2: Also, I think "at build time" and "the build fails" are a bit confusing. I realize it means "when the container is built", but it could easily be understood as when you build (compile) the application. Ideally it should be reworded to remove the ambiguity.

> When `ValidateScopes=true`, the DI container validates a scoped service isn't resolved from the singleton container. Resolving a scoped service from the singleton container can result in a memory leak because the services is retained in memory longer than the scope of the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When `ValidateScopes` is `true`, the DI container validates that a scoped service isn't resolved from the root scope. Resolving a scoped service from the root scope can result in a memory leak because the services is retained in memory longer than the scope of the request.
```
I don't know what the "singleton container" is. I assume you meant the "root scope", or "root container"?

> `ValidateScopes` and `ValidateOnBuild` are false by default in release mode for performance reasons.

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, it has nothing to do with Release mode. It depends on the environment (Development/Staging/Production/...)
